# Helping_Dumbies-in-Communicatio

## -Lets’s Expression Speak.

The Issue :- Normal People Can’t Understand the sign
Laanguage of Dumb and Mute People. This results in little
communication between the Normal Persons and the Dumb
Person. Generally the Dumb People have to face a lot of
difficullty to expalain the normal and daily senetence used in
our daily life.

Solution:- Our Project is based on Processing and
Computer Vision . It will detect the expression made by the
Special Person and matched with the built-in expression and
producess the output ( a specific output for a specific
expression) in audio and text form.

How It Works:-
1. Expression Feeding:- Firstly the expression will be feeded in
Project from A to Z that wiil be made by hand. Their wiil be
mutiple combination of different words will be feeded. The
Expression feeding also involve of specifying the ouput of
a Paticular alphabate and combination generated by
them.

2. Expression Recognising Technique:- Here we will use a
self generated Algorithm . The steps are disscused below.
The user first decide the message that he want to say to the
Other Person and then Perform expression.(make alphabte
from his hand that the Dumb people used). The
RGB(Red,Blue,Green) colour will be used to recognise the
expression given by the Dumb user. We will make the
different sets of RGB colours. The fingure cap of RED,
GREEN and BLUE colour will be used. According to the
number of RGB i.e first which colour is occuring first in
recognizing it will push that element in Set and if any
alphabate or combination of alphabate generating the same
sets it will use the technique to resolve collision.

3. Expression Matching and Output Producing :-After
recognising the expression now it will be matched to the
buit-in expression in Sets form then the Ouput that was
fixed to the Paritcular alphabate or the comination of
differetn alphabate(that the user want to say) will be
Produced.

HOW SHOULD YOU GO THROUGH THIS PROJECT :-
1. First go to the example and look for the desired ouput
that is the sentence that you want to speak. Here you
find the Letter or a combination on letter in front of the
sentence. If there is only one letter in front of sentence
than only one expression will be required for the
output, if there is two letters in front of sentence than
two expression will be required for the output.
2. After looking the sentence and letter or combination of
letter, look in the image selection and find the image
that match to your letters.
3. Now Go to the TRAIN MODULE and train the project by
giving the three colours, RED, BLUE, &amp; GREEN.
4. Go to the RECOGNIZE MODULE , here you will find two
mode.
1. Single Mode Recognization:- choose single mode if
only one expression required for the output.
2. Double Mode Recognization:- choose double mode if
two expression required for the output.

5. Finally output will be generated in Audio form.

#See the demo video here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JsK_jP0MhOI&t=92s
